feat(CORE-1150): Tag and Label docs (#1180)
gruntwork-io/docs: _docs-sources/foundations/iac-foundations/labels-tags.md

# Labels and Tags

Labels and tags are mechanisms to add metadata to the resources you provision in AWS. This data can be used in by operators, developers, and finance teams in their daily activities to identify and locate workload-specific AWS resources. While a "label" is a functional name describing the name of a resource, [Tags](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/tag-editor/latest/userguide/tagging.html) are a first-class construct within AWS.

> ## Labels Overview

Author: Sounds good to me!

> ## Labels Overview

Author: Addressed in [a80055c](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/docs/pull/1180/commits/a80055cd1df43e18c3f8a91be652807c927994e0)

A label is a consistent way to name resources in your AWS accounts. Consistent naming helps you to quickly identify resources for a specific application, the environment (e.g., `dev`, `stage`, `prod`) in which it is running, and specific portions of a workload (for example, if you have several services that operate together as a part of a large application).

### Label recommendations

> Gruntwork recommends using a labeling scheme that includes the name of your organization, the environment in which a resource is running, the name of the associated application, a workload specific identifier (), and the region in which the resource is running, delineated by hyphens. For example, `${organization}-${environment}-${application}-${identifier}-${region}`.

Author: Addressed in [a80055c](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/docs/pull/1180/commits/a80055cd1df43e18c3f8a91be652807c927994e0)

Gruntwork recommends using shorthand where possible to avoid exceeding limits for resource names as they may very across AWS services. For example, the `gruntwork` organization name can be shortened to `gw`, the `production` environment can be shortened to `prd`, and the `us-west-2` AWS region can be shortened to `uw2`.

> | Descriptor | Example | Rationale | Required |

Author: Valid point! When I originally had this there was one that was not required, so the required column can be removed. To your point, these are just recommendations anyhow.

> | Descriptor | Example | Rationale | Required |

Author: addressed in [a80055c](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/docs/pull/1180/commits/a80055cd1df43e18c3f8a91be652807c927994e0)

## Tags Overview

Tags are key value pairs that act as metadata for organizing your AWS resources. Tags are often used by operators and developers to identify workload owners (e.g., a specific team), the application that a resource belongs to, the environment in which an application is running, and more. Finance teams often make use of teams to map cost and usage to specific Cost Centers or Business Units. For more information on tags, see the [official documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/tag-editor/latest/userguide/tagging.html).

### Tag key recommendations

Gruntwork recommends prefixing all custom tag keys with the name of your organization. For example - the company acme co would start all of their tag keys with `acmeco`. This will allow you to distinguish tags specific to your organization from tags that may be automatically applied to your by AWS.

### Recommended tags

> The table below contains recommend tag keys and the description for the value you should give to the key. These keys are beneficial for both locating and filtering for resources as an operator or developer as well as being used as [cost allocation tags](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/cost-alloc-tags.html) to assist finance teams with associating costs to specific business units or applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below contains recommend tag keys and the description for the value you should give to the key. These keys are beneficial for both locating and filtering resources as an operator or developer, as well for [cost allocation tags](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/cost-alloc-tags.html) which assist finance teams in associating costs with specific business units or applications.
```

| Key Name   | Example Key | Value Description |
| ---------- | ----------- | ----------- |

> | Department | `acmeco:Department` | The organizational department to which the owning team belongs. Useful for rolling up costs per department in the organization |

Reviewer: I'm used to seeing colons used as the delimiter for tags, e.g. `key:value`. Here, the colon is just a _part_ of the key, correct. Is that potentially confusing? Is that a standard convention?

> | Department | `acmeco:Department` | The organizational department to which the owning team belongs. Useful for rolling up costs per department in the organization |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Department | `acmeco:Department` | The organizational department to which the owning team belongs. Useful for rolling up costs per department in the organization. |
```

> | Team | `acmeco:Team` | The team that owns the resource. Useful for tracking resources and cost per team. Useful when combined with department tags to see how much each team in a department is spending |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Team | `acmeco:Team` | The team that owns the resource. Useful for tracking resources and cost per team. Useful when combined with department tags to see how much each team in a department is spending. |
```

> | Environment | `acmeco:Environment` | The environment in which the resource is running. Useful for tracking spend per environment at the team, business unit, and organization levels |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Environment | `acmeco:Environment` | The environment in which the resource is running. Useful for tracking spend per environment at the team, business unit, and organization levels. |
```

> | Application | `acmeco:Application` | Track spend per application. Can be used in conjunction with environment tags to see cost of running an application per environment |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Application | `acmeco:Application` | Track spend per application. Can be used in conjunction with environment tags to see the cost of running an application per environment. |
```

| CostCenter | `acmeco:CostCenter` | Monitor costs by cost center |
| BusinessUnit | `acmeco:BusinessUnit` | Monitor costs by business unit |

> | Workload Type | `acmeco:WorkloadType` | Course grained type of service, e.g., compute, data storage, databases, etc |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Workload Type | `acmeco:WorkloadType` | Course grained type of service, e.g., compute, data storage, databases, etc. |
```

### Cost Allocation Tags

> If you are using custom tags for your resources for the purposes of tracking cost and usage, you will need to activate the tags in the Billing and Cost Management console in AWS. For more information see [User-defined cost allocation tags](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/custom-tags.html) and [Activating user-defined cost allocation tags](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/activating-tags.html).

Reviewer: Link to the "Billing and Cost Management" console?

Author: Those links are a little unintuitive because if you aren't already logged in to the console then it will just go to either the log in page, then when you log in you don't get forward to your intended page iirc. Happy to be overruled here if you think it would be helpful.

> ## Adding Labels and Tags

Author: Addressed in [a80055c](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/docs/pull/1180/commits/a80055cd1df43e18c3f8a91be652807c927994e0)

Labels and tags are both specified as code and deployed with your resources. In this section, you will learn how to create a label as well as apply global and environment/resource-specific tags to your AWS resources.

### Adding labels

> The simplest way to create a label is using a `locals` block and combining the recommended attributes into a single attribute. For example, if you were creating an AWS S3 bucket using a Gruntwork module you could set up the following locals block.

Reviewer: Should we say anything about the potential use of module defaults to define labels?

Author: Yeah, I can add something.

Author: Addressed in [82e9da1](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/docs/pull/1180/commits/82e9da11451e75681a117a8a9bacd6ff8122d75e)

```hcl
terraform {
  source = "git::git@github.com:gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-service-catalog.git//modules/data-stores/s3-bucket?ref=v0.104.15"
}

include "root" {
  path = find_in_parent_folders()
}

locals {
    org = "gw"
    env = "prd"
    app = "coolapp"
    identifier = "s3"
    region = "uw2"

    name = "${local.org}-${local.env}-${local.app}-${local.identifier}-${local.region}"
}

inputs = {
  primary_bucket = local.name
}
```

All Gruntwork modules expose the ability to name a resource, for which you can reference the attribute created in the `locals` block. If you are developing your own modules, you will need to ensure that you are exposing the ability to pass a name into the module.

### Global tags

Tags can be enforced globally by specifying them in the provider block. When specifying tags in the provider, the tags are automatically added to all resources created using that provider. Note that tags set at the provider level can be overridden, which is covered in [overriding tags](#overriding-tags), allowing you to specify all required tags in the provider with default values, then consumers of the provider to override the values as needed.

#### AWS provider

> The AWS Provider supports the [default_tags](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#default_tags) parameter. This works with all AWS resources except `aws_autoscaling_group`. Here's an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS Provider supports the [`default_tags`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#default_tags) parameter. This works with all AWS resources except `aws_autoscaling_group`. Here's an example:
```

```hcl
provider "aws" {
  default_tags {
    tags = {
      Environment = "test"
      Name        = "example"
    }
  }
}
```

#### Terragrunt provider

> Terragrunt supports a [generate](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/reference/config-blocks-and-attributes/#generate) block. Instead of hard-coding the provider block in every single module, you can ensure that every repo that uses Terragrunt has a single, central generate block used by everything in that repo. That generate block can include the default_tags you want. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terragrunt supports a [`generate`](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/reference/config-blocks-and-attributes/#generate) block. Instead of hard-coding the `provider` block in every single module, you can ensure that every repo that uses Terragrunt has a single, central `generate` block used by everything in that repo. That `generate` block can include the `default_tags` you want. For example:
```

```hcl
generate "provider" {
  path      = "provider.tf"
  if_exists = "overwrite"
  contents = <<EOF
provider "aws" {
  default_tags {
    tags = {
      Environment = "test"
      Name        = "example"
    }
  }
}
EOF
}
```

### Overriding Tags

Tags set at the provider level are a great way to ensure that all resources are created with the same tags. However in some scenarios you may need to add specific tags to resources by either adding new tags (in addition to the default tags), or overriding the default tag values. In this section we will walk through options available for overriding tag values.

#### Per module

> In some modules, you want to override these tags in a specific resource. You can do so by specifying the tags in the `provider` block as well as using the tags attribute on that resource. For example, here is how you can override the default tags in the aws_vpc resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some modules, you want to override these tags in a specific resource. You can do so by specifying the tags in the `provider` block as well as using the `tags` attribute on that resource. For example, here is how you can override the default tags in the `aws_vpc` resource:
```

```hcl
provider "aws" {
  default_tags {
    tags = {
      Environment = "test"
      Name        = "example"
    }
  }
}

resource "aws_vpc" "example" {
  # ..other configuration...
  tags = {
    Name = "example-vpc"
  }
}
```

> Any tags within a resource override tags in default_tags, so if you run apply on this code, then the VPC will end up with two tags, one from default_tags, and one overridden by the aws_vpc resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any tags within a resource override tags in `default_tags`. If you run `apply` on this code, then the VPC will end up with two tags, one from `default_tags`, and one overridden by the `aws_vpc` resource:
```

1. **Environment**: test
1. **Name**: example-vpc

#### Per environment

> In some scenarios, you may need to override tags to different values in different live environments. For example, let's again assume you have default_tags defined as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some scenarios, you may need to override tags in different live environments. For example, let’s again assume you have `default_tags` defined as follows:
```

```hcl
provider "aws" {
  default_tags {
    tags = {
      Environment = "test"
      Name        = "example"
    }
  }
}
```

> In your vpc module, instead of a hard-coded tags attribute to override these tags, you can take in tags as an input variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your VPC module, instead of hard-coded a `tags` attribute to override these tags, you can take in tags as an input variable:
```

```hcl
variable "tags" {
  description = "Custom tags to set on the VPC"
  type        = map(string)
  default     = {}
}

resource "aws_vpc" "example" {
  # ..other configuration...
  tags = var.tags
}
```

Now you can optionally override the tags with different values in different environments. E.g., In stage, you might set:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl
```

tags = {
  Name = "example-vpc-stage"
}
```

And in prod, you might set:

```hcl
tags = {
  Name = "example-vpc-prod"
}
```

#### Global overrides

> Finally, you can add support using Terragrunt for overriding the tags on all resources globally. This way, you don't have to add a `tags` input variable to every single module and every single resource within that module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can use Terragrunt to override the tags on all resources globally. This way, you don't have to add a `tags` input variable to every single module and every single resource within that module.
```

  }

  # Load an overrides.yml file in any Terragrunt folder, or fallback to {} if none is found
  overrides     = try(yamldecode(file("${get_terragrunt_dir()}/overrides.yml")), {})

  # Read the override tags, if any, from overrides.yml, or fallback to {} if none are found
  override_tags = lookup(local.overrides, "tags", {})

  # The final tags to apply to all resources are a merge between the default tags and override tags
  tags = merge(local.default_tags, local.override_tags)
}

generate "provider" {
  path      = "provider.tf"
  if_exists = "overwrite"
  contents = <<EOF
provider "aws" {
  default_tags {
    tags = ${jsonencode(local.tags)}
  }
}
EOF
}
```

This structure defines some default tags to apply to all modules, but it also allows each module to optionally define an `overrides.yml` file with override values, including tags to override.

For example, in `stage/networking/vpc`, you might have a `terragrunt.hcl` that looks like this:

```hcl
# Include the root terragrunt.hcl config
include "root" {
  path = find_in_parent_folders()
}
```

And also in `stage/networking/vpc`, you might have an overrides file called `overrides.yml` that looks like this:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

tags:
  Name: vpc-stage
```

In `prod/networking/vpc/terragrunt.hcl`, you'd have the exact same contents as the stage one, but in `prod/networking/vpc/overrides.yml`, you'd have:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

tags:
  Name: vpc-prod
```

> In other words, any of your Terragrunt modules can now include an overrides.yml file to override the "default" config from the root terragrunt.hcl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other words, any of your Terragrunt modules can now include an `overrides.yml` file to override the "default" config from the root `terragrunt.hcl`.
```
